Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
♪ Bom-bom, bom-ba-dum ♪
♪ Ma-ma-ma-bom-ba-dum
Ba-da-dum ♪
[music playing]
- My log! My log!
- My log, brother!
- My log, brother! My log!
It's mine!
[both] Ah!
- [buzzing]
- Meh.
[humming]
[shouts]
Reload!
Valley furmite problem solved.
Eep, scratch that off the to-do slate.
Thanks, Leader Grug.
Or may I call you Dad?
No. And another problem appears.
Here, chew these.
Hm. Hm!
- Tastes like pretty.
- [sniffs]
[Eep] Ha-ha, that's 15 problems in a row.
I don't wanna say I can solve every
problem, but you know, that's how it is.
Way to go, buddy.
I wish I had a problem for you to solve,
but I'm too busy looking for my family.
You still haven't found 'em?
Munk, not to concern you,
but that's a problem.
[laughs] Yeah, I guess it is.
Yay, I got a problem!
Do you think you could find
Papa, Mama, and my sister Gunk?
I lost 'em 42 moons ago.
We were playing
Hide and Go Hide Some More.
And then they vanished forever.
Or they're still playing the game.
My family's very competitive.
Worry not, my good Munk.
Grug Crood is on the case.
In fact, I bet they're right under here.
Or somewhere else.
You know, that wouldn't
have made much sense anyway.
I was with you, Dad.
[snoring]
[yells]
Five more winks.
Gran, you were supposed
to make sure Sandy took a nap.
You know how she gets when she's tired.
[snarls, sighs]
Didn't you see my note?
I saw it. What do you think
put me to sleep?
[Ugga growls]
Oh, fine. You want the truth?
I didn't blow off your note
'cause I didn't read it.
It's because I can't read.
[all gasp]
I look at all that
and all I see is silly squiggles.
Oh, come on. You can read.
You read Eep's diary all the time.
[gasps] Hey!
No, I just pretended so people think
I'm smart and not just gorgeous.
But I'm a fraud! A gorgeous fraud!
Oh, ooh!
Don't worry. We'll teach you to read.
And then you can see what
all the fuss is about with Eep's diary.
Hey!
That's a great idea, Thunk.
She should learn.
Then she can read
all the chore lists I leave her.
Oh, gee. That would be great.
I just hope my dusty old brain
is up for it.
Or I may never learn.
[both growling]
[grumbles]
Have you seen these people?
Hey, how about you?
You?
Amber?
No. Amber would remember that hair.
- Oh.
- [stutters] Er, uh...
Amber mean... Amber hear someone
calling from under rock.
[sighs] This is getting us nowhere.
Okay, when I lost my bonking rock,
I retraced my steps
to where I last saw it,
so maybe we could find
your family the same way.
Live my life in reverse?
Well, it's not going anywhere forward,
so why not?
Let's see, before this...
♪ And then I moonwalked
Which doesn't exist yet ♪
♪ 'Cause we don't know about the moon ♪
[Munk] I had lunch...
Got a tooth pulled.
Oh, I almost died.
[shouts]
One day down, 1,276 to go!
- Uh, could you speed this up?
- Huh? Yeah, sure.
[sighs] It hasn't taken me this long
to solve a problem in a while.
Ooh, maybe if I lose my family,
they'll lead me to Munk's.
No, no. Think.
[grunts]
- Uh... Ew, what is that?
- Hey, that's my dad's dress pelt.
Oh, the body odor is overpowering.
It's perfect.
[sniffs]
She's got the scent.
[shouts, grunts]
That's what I get for standing.
Oh!
[Thunk] Okay, Gran, what is this?
Oh, I know this one.
It's, uh... No, no, don't tell me.
Bring it closer.
Too close. Back up.
I need to see the whole picture.
Further.
[gasps]
Oh, pigrats. I'll get the next one.
First, I gotta use the bushes.
Wait! This is a great
learning opportunity. [laughs]
Okay, one bush is for little girls
and one is for little boys.
Let's sound it out together, huh?
- Little...
- Who you calling little?
- This old fart knows where she's going.
- You do?
- How, if you can't read?
- I guess I must be learning, then.
No, Gran. That's not the...
[shouting]
Poor Gran. She really is struggling.
I blame her teachers.
Get ready, list.
I'm itching to do some scratching.
Congrats, Munk. I found your family,
and they're right over... there?
[Munk] Mystery solved!
My family is in that unreachable place
I'll never be able to go to!
Man, I totally lost this game
of Hide and Go Hide Some More.
It's not that far.
I'm pretty sure I can throw you there.
- [rock thuds]
- [man groans]
[man] Oh, brother.
Okay, I learned a lot from that test rock.
I think we're good to go.
Really, don't worry.
Nobody can solve every problem.
I can. Look, I'm a great leader,
and great leaders solve every problem.
I know. I'll solve it by finding
you a new family.
- Oh, fun! How about yours?
- No, we've already got a Munk.
We call him Thunk. Don't worry.
We'll find you a nice family.
In fact, I got just the one in mind.
Ah, uh... Well, you weren't
my first choices.
Sorry. Our family's too normal
for your weird problem.
But thank you for agreeing to be
the best family Munk could ever ask for.
Other than his real family, of course.
Real families are overrated.
Just ask my kids, who never visit me!
And they say I yell too much.
I'm happy to help. I had a good run
as Womp, but it's time to move on.
Amber still get paid
whether plan work or not, right?
This plan's gonna work.
I solve problems. It's, like, what I do.
Say, fella, the furmites are back.
Impossible. That problem's already
been scratched off the list. See?
- Yes, but...
- The list has spoken.
- Munk, say hello to your new family.
- Hello! Oh, wow!
Give me a hug, sis?
Actually, that's your mom.
Yes, Amber woman
who give birth to Munk.
Grug, this getting weird.
No, no, it's not.
It's getting exciting, yeah.
New families meeting,
problems being solved.
Say, what are you guys gonna do first?
Uh, gee, I don't know.
Play Hide and Go Hide Some More?
Or how about some family grooming time?
So, I can scratch this off my list?
Um...
[gulps]
[sighs]
- If you feel that way, I guess.
- [chuckles]
Good work, me.
[chuckles] Thanks, me.
Nope. Can't read it. Not a clue.
Oh, well. Maybe I'm just a lost cause.
You've been working so hard, Mom.
Take a break and eat some berries.
Oh, brain food! Don't mind if I do.
Ooh, uh...
Actually, I stopped eating fruit.
Gives me gas.
That's not true. You love fruit
even more than you love us.
- And you love having gas, too.
- [laughs nervously]
Right. How could I forget?
Uh...
Okay, fine! I can read!
[both gasp]
You lied to us! That checks out.
All to avoid some chores?
Well, you got a lot of making up to do.
[shouts] Oh!
- My back! I can't move.
- Nice try. Now get a-choresin'.
No! I'm serious! Help!
Eh. Still beats doing chores.
Okay, and...
There! A new family portrait.
Hey, Munk, you're not smiling.
Don't worry. I'll fix it.
Oh. That wasn't weird.
Hey, thanks for your help, buddy,
but, you know,
the thing is, this new family
isn't quite working out.
La, la, la!
- Amber no get paid enough for this.
- Hey, you got paid? She got paid?
Hey, no one's family is perfect.
Point is, problem solved.
And once it's scratched off,
it's solved forever.
Furmites? I already solved you.
New Mom, is that a friendly swarm?
No, and maybe no call Amber "Mom."
Creep Amber out.
[all scream]
[Grug grunts]
[man groans] Oh, brother.
That was close. Right, Munk family?
About that, if a family's gonna kill me,
I want it to be my own.
- Yeah. Amber no need free fruit that bad.
- I just gotta be Womp.
La, la, la, la.
Sorry I didn't solve your problem, Munk.
I guess I'm not a truly,
truly great leader after all.
Sure, you are.
You always try, and that makes you
a great leader and a truly great friend.
Thanks, buddy.
I can't promise I'll find them,
but I'll never stop looking.
Wherever they are,
no matter how hard I have to...
- Gunk, I finally found you!
- Got me.
I thought you'd never find me
hiding under that small rock.
What? I... But I checked under there!
Hey, you wanna search for Mom and Dad?
I think they're hiding in a chasm.
[both giggling]
But, wait.
You were really playing
Hide and Go Hide Some More for 42 moons?
Really?
I... Problem still got solved.
- [Gunk] Munk siblings away!
- [Munk] Trees. Trees, man.
[music playing]
[Grug howls]
Happy Howl Day!
- [howls]
- [howls, laughs]
It's here? I thought
Howl Day would never come.
This better not be a trick, dreams.
- [laughs]
- Whoa.
And a-one and a-two...
[all howl]
- You, boy, what day is it?
- Why, it's Howl Day, sir.
Then I didn't miss it.
I promise to keep the spirit of Howl
in my heart from now on.
And that's long enough. Yah!
Happy Howl Day.
Ah!
Oh, Sandy, this is your first
Howl Day, isn't it?
It's the best day of the season.
We get to celebrate Howl,
the valley's greatest hero.
'Twas a day long ago,
when all through the valley,
not a creature was stirring.
Except 20 man-eating bear owls.
The beasts were real hungry,
like a baby who missed snack time
and they're all hungry.
Everyone would've been devoured
if not for Howl.
He stepped up and told those beasts...
[howling]
And by doing so,
Howl sacrificed himself to the valley.
- [coughs]
- [scoffs]
Wow, son, you really made Howl
come to life. And then, to death.
[scoffs] Give me a break.
Don't listen to them, Sandy.
It's all make-believe.
Huh?
I once tried to save the day
by howling with all my heart.
[shouting]
[howls]
[continues howling]
[moos]
[Eep] It didn't work.
[growls]
My heart was broken that day,
as were my ribs, elbows,
and several of my toes.
So let's not make Howl Day
into such a big deal.
Eep, I hear ya.
Everyone, we're gonna make this
Howl Day into such a big deal.
[scoffs]
[all cheering]
[man] All right!
I'm talking big feast.
Tons of decorations.
And to cap it all off,
a grand reenactment of Howl's triumph.
Son, I am trusting you to play Howl.
[gasps] Me? I'd better practice.
[howls]
Baitsy, you play Howl's lookout tree.
Mow, you'll be a rock.
- [laughs]
- [grunts happily]
Oh, and don't worry, Eep.
I got a special role for you, too.
You'll be a bear owl's butt with Womp.
- I got dibs on the left cheek.
- Honey, you know what they say.
There are no small parts,
just small butts.
I don't want to be a dumb butt
in some dumb reenactment
about a dumb guy
who probably wasn't even real.
[gasps] Eep besmirch Howl good name!
Amber besmirch Eep face!
Now, now. Hey, come on, guys.
Eep doesn't mean it.
Yes, I do. Think about it.
One weakling stopped 20 bear owls?
- That story makes no sense.
- [all] Boo!
Oh, yeah? Go ahead and boo.
I boo your boos. Boo!
[laughs]
Well, my daughter's clearly gone crazy.
So, moving on. We need to cut down
the biggest lookout tree ever.
Who's got the sharpest teeth?
[all chatter]
Don't worry, Eep.
Howl forgives you for doubting him.
Howl is as kind as he is loud.
[shrieks] No! Howl is made up,
Howl Day is a lie,
and I'm going to prove it.
- [shouts]
- Oh, but Howl is real. Trust me.
- I was there when it all went down.
- You saw Howl?
Was his pelt really so green
that the grass got jealous?
Did he talk like "dees"?
What did he smell like?
Yes, no, and he smelled like
a ripe smash fruit on a warm summer day.
And there you have it, Eep.
Old Man Root just proved that Howl existed
by saying that Howl existed.
Sooo... if you saw the rockslide,
then you can take us there.
- No can do.
- A-ha!
- Because it doesn't exist.
- Because we're already there.
Oh, wait. Forgot where I was.
I do that a lot.
Rockslide's that-a-way.
What do you think?
The decorations remind us
of the predators Howl saved us from.
[Ugga] Why, it's beautiful,
but I think you're overdoing it a bit.
Aw, thanks, honey! More, guys, more!
[Ugga] Grug, it's too heavy on that side.
Yeah, you're right.
Make it heavier on the other side, guys!
[Grug] Perfect!
Hang there for the rest of the day
and we're golden.
[groans]
As promised, the rockslide.
Not to be confused with this rock slide.
Whee!
Whoa! Howl's real rockslide!
Bury me now, 'cause I'm dying.
This doesn't prove anything.
If Howl's story is true, there must
be a green pelt buried under there.
So guess what we're gonna do now.
- [Thunk grunts]
- [grunts]
- [Thunk laughs]
- [both] Whee!
Oh, is this not what you meant?
Grug, honey, isn't all this
a little uncalled-for?
Nonsense!
Everything serves a purpose, Ugga.
Like these lightning bugs.
They stand for the light Howl brought
in our darkest moment.
Presents? What do they stand for?
The presents stand
for the presents you get
when someone gives you presents.
Wrap faster!
[Thunk gasps] I found Howl's pelt.
Ugh! Ew! That's your pelt.
Uh... Oh!
I found my pelt.
Face it. We've been digging all day,
but the pelt's not in here,
and you know what that means.
Aww. It met a lady pelt and ran off
to make her its bride.
- No. It means Howl wasn't real.
- [Thunk gasps]
Howl's pelt! He was real!
I gotta show everyone!
No, my hands aren't worthy.
Ah. Oh, this is the best Howl Day ever!
I can't believe it. I was wrong.
Ow! [howls]
You did that with your voice.
Um... No, I didn't.
Ow! [howls]
Old Man Root, are you... Howl?
Me, Howl?
No, I'm just a mysterious old guy
with a fuzzy origin story.
- No more lies. I want the truth!
- All right. Just let go of the beard.
[sighs] I am Howl.
Or at least I was.
I wasn't what you'd call good at hunting.
[screams]
- [laughter]
- So they made me a gatherer.
[screams]
Well, everybody decided the only thing
I was good at was screaming.
But I wasn't any good at that either.
Bear owls!
There are 20 of 'em, you hear me?
[howls]
But I couldn't even get that right.
I was so ashamed of myself that I ran away
to the Garden of Eaten.
I was alone there for many moons,
which gave me the time to stop
fearing everything
and start loving every creature,
big and small,
cute and scary, cool and not cool.
Eventually, I went back to the valley,
but with a new identity.
Florfo the Magnificent...
which I later changed to Old Man Root.
But back in the valley,
everyone thought Howl was a hero.
They heard a yell, saw the rockslide,
and just assumed the rest.
I didn't have the heart
to set 'em straight.
Wow! So... I was right.
You may be missing the point of my story.
How I've grown as a person...
[Eep] Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Let's go tell everyone
that Howl was a fraud!
[grunts] And to make the tree
even perfect-er...
I found Howl's pelt!
And it smells like greatness!
- And now I can't see!
- [shouts] No!
- [screams]
- [all gasp]
- [grunts]
- Whew!
- [screams]
- [Thunk screams]
[Grug screaming]
Dad!
[exclaims]
This was supposed
to be the best Howl Day ever.
Now it's just gonna be
an okay one, at best.
Dad, Howl Day isn't
about feasts or decorations.
It's about celebrating a weakling
who was crushed by a rockslide.
Well, yeah, but it's also about bear owls.
More than 20 of them,
headed right for the valley.
Well, maybe I can't hunt, fight,
or even touch my toes...
Nope, but I got to do
something heroic and memorable.
I can't wait to see their faces
when I tell them the truth.
[howling]
I'm a rockslide.
There. The valley is saved.
Because it doesn't matter who you are.
There's a hero in all of us.
Just howl with all your heart.
[sniffs]
Yeah, that's what Howl Day's all about.
- Get outta here, present.
- [Thunk] Also...
[coughs]
- [Thunk] Eep?
- I...
- [whimpers]
- came here to say,
I'm a bear owl's butt.
[all cheer]
Why didn't you tell them the truth?
The story of Howl may not be true, but
maybe it's better if people think it is.
Oh. Well, good for them.
I'll keep living a lie, but good for them.
♪ Deck the tree
With bear owl jowls ♪
♪ Howl la la la la, la la la la ♪
♪ 'Tis the day we celebrate Howl
Howl la la la la, la la la la ♪
♪ The rocks that crushed him were colossal
Howl la la, la la la, la la la ♪
♪ Now he's a decaying fossil ♪
♪ Howl la la la la, la la la la! ♪
[Amber] ♪ Deck the tree
With bear owl jowls ♪
♪ Howl la la la la, la la la la ♪
♪ 'Tis the day we celebrate Howl
Howl la la la la, la la la la ♪
♪ The rocks that crushed him were colossal
Howl la la, la la la, la la la ♪
♪ Now he's a decaying fossil ♪
♪ Howl la la la la, la la la la! ♪
Amber out!
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org